docs/05-XY.md, before:

---
title: XY chart
---

XY chart is used to plot points by specifying their XY coordinates.

You can also plot XY line chart by connecting the points.

<p class="codepen" data-height="445" data-theme-id="light" data-default-tab="result" data-user="timqian" data-slug-hash="ExYZvZY" style="height: 445px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;" data-pen-title="chart.xkcd XY">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/timqian/pen/ExYZvZY/">
  chart.xkcd XY</a> by timqian (<a href="https://codepen.io/timqian">@timqian</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

## JS part

```js
  const svg = document.querySelector('.xy-chart');

  new chartXkcd.XY(svg, {
    title: 'Pokemon farms', //optional
    xLabel: 'Coordinate', //optional
    yLabel: 'Count', //optional
    data: {
      datasets: [{
        label: 'Pikachu',
        data: [{ x: 3, y: 10 }, { x: 4, y: 122 }, { x: 10, y: 100 }, { x: 1, y: 2 }, { x: 2, y: 4 }],
      }, {
        label: 'Squirtle',
        data: [{ x: 3, y: 122 }, { x: 4, y: 212 }, { x: -3, y: 100 }, { x: 1, y: 1 }, { x: 1.5, y: 12 }],
      }],
    },
    options: { //optional
      xTickCount: 5,
      yTickCount: 5,
      legendPosition: chartXkcd.config.positionType.upRight,
      showLine: false,
      timeFormat: undefined,
      dotSize: 1,
    },
  });
```

## Customize XY chart by defining options

- `xTickCount`: customize tick numbers you want to see on the x axis (default `3`)
- `yTickCount`: customize tick numbers you want to see on the y axis (default `3`)
- `showLegend`: display legend near chart (default `true`)
- `legendPosition`: specify where you want to place the legend (default `chartXkcd.config.positionType.upLeft`)
  Possible values:
    - up left: `chartXkcd.config.positionType.upLeft`
    - up right: `chartXkcd.config.positionType.upLeft`
    - bottom left: `chartXkcd.config.positionType.downLeft`
    - bottom right: `chartXkcd.config.positionType.downRight`
- `showLine`: connect the points with lines (default: `false`)
- `timeFormat`: specify the time format if the x values are time (default `undefined`)
  chart.xkcd use [dayjs](https://github.com/iamkun/dayjs) to format time, you can find the all the available formats [here](https://github.com/iamkun/dayjs/blob/dev/docs/en/API-reference.md#list-of-all-available-formats)
- `dotSize`: you can change size of the dots if you want (default `1`)
- `dataColors`: array of colors for different datasets
- `fontFamily`: customize font family used in the chart
- `unxkcdify`: disable xkcd effect (default `false`)
- `strokeColor`: stroke colors (default `black`)
- `backgroundColor`: color for BG (default `white`)

**Another example of XY chart: XY line chart with `timeFormat`**

<p class="codepen" data-height="472" data-theme-id="light" data-default-tab="result" data-user="timqian" data-slug-hash="ZEzLJaN" style="height: 472px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;" data-pen-title="chart.xkcd XY line">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/timqian/pen/ZEzLJaN/">
  chart.xkcd XY line</a> by timqian (<a href="https://codepen.io/timqian">@timqian</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

Commit message:

let users customize aspect ratio of charts

docs/05-XY.md, after:

---
title: XY chart
---

XY chart is used to plot points by specifying their XY coordinates.

You can also plot XY line chart by connecting the points.

<p class="codepen" data-height="445" data-theme-id="light" data-default-tab="result" data-user="timqian" data-slug-hash="ExYZvZY" style="height: 445px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;" data-pen-title="chart.xkcd XY">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/timqian/pen/ExYZvZY/">
  chart.xkcd XY</a> by timqian (<a href="https://codepen.io/timqian">@timqian</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>

## JS part

```js
  const svg = document.querySelector('.xy-chart');

  new chartXkcd.XY(svg, {
    title: 'Pokemon farms', //optional
    xLabel: 'Coordinate', //optional
    yLabel: 'Count', //optional
    data: {
      datasets: [{
        label: 'Pikachu',
        data: [{ x: 3, y: 10 }, { x: 4, y: 122 }, { x: 10, y: 100 }, { x: 1, y: 2 }, { x: 2, y: 4 }],
      }, {
        label: 'Squirtle',
        data: [{ x: 3, y: 122 }, { x: 4, y: 212 }, { x: -3, y: 100 }, { x: 1, y: 1 }, { x: 1.5, y: 12 }],
      }],
    },
    options: { //optional
      xTickCount: 5,
      yTickCount: 5,
      legendPosition: chartXkcd.config.positionType.upRight,
      showLine: false,
      timeFormat: undefined,
      dotSize: 1,
    },
  });
```

## Customize XY chart by defining options

- `xTickCount`: customize tick numbers you want to see on the x axis (default `3`)
- `yTickCount`: customize tick numbers you want to see on the y axis (default `3`)
- `showLegend`: display legend near chart (default `true`)
- `legendPosition`: specify where you want to place the legend (default `chartXkcd.config.positionType.upLeft`)
  Possible values:
    - up left: `chartXkcd.config.positionType.upLeft`
    - up right: `chartXkcd.config.positionType.upLeft`
    - bottom left: `chartXkcd.config.positionType.downLeft`
    - bottom right: `chartXkcd.config.positionType.downRight`
- `showLine`: connect the points with lines (default: `false`)
- `timeFormat`: specify the time format if the x values are time (default `undefined`)
  chart.xkcd use [dayjs](https://github.com/iamkun/dayjs) to format time, you can find the all the available formats [here](https://github.com/iamkun/dayjs/blob/dev/docs/en/API-reference.md#list-of-all-available-formats)
- `dotSize`: you can change size of the dots if you want (default `1`)
- `dataColors`: array of colors for different datasets
- `fontFamily`: customize font family used in the chart
- `unxkcdify`: disable xkcd effect (default `false`)
- `strokeColor`: stroke colors (default `black`)
- `backgroundColor`: color for BG (default `white`)
- `heightRatio`: change the aspect ratio of the chart (default `3` results in 4/3 ratio)

**Another example of XY chart: XY line chart with `timeFormat`**

<p class="codepen" data-height="472" data-theme-id="light" data-default-tab="result" data-user="timqian" data-slug-hash="ZEzLJaN" style="height: 472px; box-sizing: border-box; display: flex; align-items: center; justify-content: center; border: 2px solid; margin: 1em 0; padding: 1em;" data-pen-title="chart.xkcd XY line">
  <span>See the Pen <a href="https://codepen.io/timqian/pen/ZEzLJaN/">
  chart.xkcd XY line</a> by timqian (<a href="https://codepen.io/timqian">@timqian</a>)
  on <a href="https://codepen.io">CodePen</a>.</span>
</p>
<script async src="https://static.codepen.io/assets/embed/ei.js"></script>
